# fileinput
--
    import "github.com/doloopwhile/go-fileinput"

An analogous article of fileinput module in Python

Examples:

    // reverse.go
    // print file lines in reverse order.
    package main

    import (
    	"fmt"
    	"os"

    	"github.com/doloopwhile/go-fileinput"
    )

    func main() {
    	sc := fileinput.Lines(os.Args[1:])
    	lines := []string{}
    	for sc.Scan() {
    		l := sc.Text()
    		lines = append(lines, l)
    	}
    	if sc.Err() != nil {
    		os.Stderr.WriteString(sc.Err().Error() + "\n")
    		os.Exit(1)
    	}
    	for i := len(lines) - 1; i >= 0; i-- {
    		fmt.Printf("%02d: %s\n", i+1, lines[i])
    	}
    }

## Usage

#### func  StdOpen

```go
func StdOpen(name string) (io.ReadCloser, error)
```
StdOpen open file with os.Open. However, it returns os.Stdin for "-".

#### type Scanner

```go
type Scanner struct {
	Args      []string                                 // Names of files. It should be os.Args[1:] in typical use case.
	Open      func(name string) (io.ReadCloser, error) // Function to open files.
	SplitFunc bufio.SplitFunc                          // Argument of Split() of bufio.Split.
}
```

Scanner provides a interface like bufio.Scanner to reading data from multiple
files.

It is not expected that members of Scanner is modified after first call of
.Scan() If it was, it is undefined what happen.

#### func  Lines

```go
func Lines(args []string) *Scanner
```
Lines returns a new Scanner to read lines of files in args. If args is empty, it
return a Scanner which scans os.Stdin.

#### func (*Scanner) Err

```go
func (s *Scanner) Err() error
```
Err returns the first non-EOF error that was encountered by the Scanner or was
returned by Open.

#### func (*Scanner) Scan

```go
func (s *Scanner) Scan() bool
```
Scan advances internal scanner to the next token like Scan method of
bufio.Scanner. It automatically open/close files specified in Args.

#### func (*Scanner) Text

```go
func (s *Scanner) Text() string
```
Text returns the most recent token generated by a call to Scan as a newly
allocated string holding its bytes.
